Add packing list
Links for medical insurance, sim card, linen
Starting date of programme

4 February in New York City, the ending date of the programme is 4 November in Israel.

Ending date of programme

4 November in Israel

Flights
The flight into USA on the 4 February and the flight home from Israel in 4 November are booked by you. All other flights throughout the programme are booked and paid for by Ohrsom. 
(Please note that we offer an optional extension learning programming at the end of the programme, so we suggest only booking the return flight home later in the year.)
Please ensure that your child LANDS in the USA on Wednesday 4 February. (If they land in USA earlier, they will need to meet the group at airport or at the first stop). Please only book flights to land at JFK or Newark airports. Your child will be met at the airport and transport will be arranged to the first destination.



Visas 
All students need to arrange a visa for USA. Australians need an online ESTA visa and South Africans need an American visa through the US embassy.
-Please arrange a USA visa timeously as this process can often take some time

For South African visa application:
https://za.usembassy.gov/johannesburg-u-s-consulate/
NB: As per their website:
Copy and paste the Application ID displayed on the top right hand corner of the page. If you close your browser window, you will need your ID to access your application again.
» Save your application frequently. The system will time out after 20 minutes of inactivity, and you will lose all unsaved information.
When asked for the purpose of your trip, select “TEMP. BUSINESS PLEASURE VISITOR (B)”
When asked to specify, select “(TOURISM/MEDICAL TREATMENT (B2)”
When asked
“Have you made specific travel plans?” , select yes and then insert the following information:
Arrival Date 4/2/2026 in New York
Departure Date
10/3/24 from New York
According to our research, most people receive a 10 year visa and the shortest visa that they would issue would be 1 year.
We will be providing you with a detailed letter explaining what our organisation does and the details of the trip that you can show at your Visa appointment.
When asked
“Provide the locations you plan to visit in the U.S.:”, write New York
When asked:
“Address Where You Will Stay in the U.S.”, write:
17 Beechwood Drive, Lawrence NY 11559
(This is the Stahler’s residence, a family who own a large house and often host our students- Final accommodation is still to be confirmed)
When asked:
“Person/Entity Paying for Your Trip “, select: Other Person and then write your parents details
When asked:
“Are there other persons traveling with you?”, select yes. You can then put the details of 2 or 3 of your friends.
When asked:
“Are you traveling as part of a group or organization?”, select yes and then write Ohrsom Student for the Group Name
You will be asked for a contact in the US. Please find out if you have any friend/family member who knows you. If you don’t, please use Malka Stahler
Number : +1 (516) 617-3425
NB: IF POSSIBLE PLEASE PRINT AND TAKE WITH YOU ANY UNIVERSITY CORRESPONDENCE AND/OR ACCEPTANCE LETTER.  
VERY NB: PLEASE TELL YOUR INTERVIEWER THAT YOU WILL BE STUDYING OUTSIDE OF THE USA NEXT YEAR!! (THIS SEEMS TO BE SOMETHING THEY ARE LOOKING OUT FOR!)

As soon as you have booked your Visa appointment, please email Louandri dutoitlouandri@gmail.com  with the participant’s ID number, the date and time of the appointment, and I will send you a letter and a plane ticket itinerary to take with you for the appointment (please note this ticket does not contain accurate flight information- it is just for visa application purposes)

Israel entry visa for all participants:
There are 2 visas that are needed for Israel
1. Is a mandatory Israel entry visa- this is a new requirement, for everyone entering the country from anywhere in the world. It is an online form and needs to be completed to enter into Israel. Please see the link below to apply
https://israel-entry.piba.gov.il/

2. Anyone staying in Israel over 3 months needs a long term student visa. We will assist the students to apply for this visa once they are already in Israel. 

Please note that all other visas for the duration of the programme will be arranged for by Ohrsom but are not included in the programme costs. 

Masa
-Please ensure that you have signed up for the MASA grant- this is essential in order to join the programme. 
Here is the link: https://www.masaisrael.org/funding/apply-for-masa/

Israel Go (Australians)
Please note the deadline to sign up for this grant is 20 October- so please sign up ASAP.
Here is the link- israelprograms.com.au/funding/israelgo

Medical Insurance- Please ensure that you have signed up for medical insurance using the link below. This is mandatory in order to partake in the programme.
Please use the address 11 Hillel St, Jerusalem and your child's mobile number. Date of entry in Israel 25 March until 8 November. Please note that the medical cover will begin in USA on 4 February. This cover is medical only and does not cover travel insurance for personal items etc.
Medical Insurance- It is mandatory for all students to sign up to this medical policy. We work specifically with this company as we have a long standing relationship with them, their service is exemplary, the policy covers all travel as well as extreme sports and we gain access to deeply caring Anglo Doctors whilst in Israel, we therefore do not allow students to join the programme with any other medical policy.
Please carefully read through the links in the sign up form to understand exactly what is covered and what is excluded.
The policy does NOT include
-Mental health
-Dentistry
-Physiotherapy
-Orthodontics

Please see the sign up link below add link

Please note that when travelling outside of Israel, if your child G-D forbid needs medical attention, the policy is such that you will need to lay out the cost upfront which you can then claim back from the insurance and be reimbursed.

Vacccines 
India: In India we plan to visit Dehli, Agra, Jaipur, Ranthambore and Dharamsala. There are no mandatory vaccines that are necessary and they are low risk Malaria areas but please consult your doctor and if you choose to follow any treatments please do them before leaving for the Gap year. 

Packing list: Please see the attachment below. Attach

Luggage allowance- Although the programme is over 9 months and there will be different weather seasons etc we recommend that you only bring one suitcase. We have seen that the students who pack lighter, benefit greatly throughout the year. 

Please Note: From America we will be traveling directly to India. Ohrsom will cover the expense of 1x 23kg suitcase, plus 8kg hand luggage and a backpack bag per student for the flight to India and the return flight to Israel. If you have a second check in suitcase it will be at an additional cost to you (based on the airline cost TBC). There may also be storage costs in India.

Linen: If you would like to make use of a linen service that will arrange all the bedding requirements for your child and it will be ready in Jerusalem for them when they arrive- you can use the link below. Please note that it is not mandatory to use this service, you may also arrange your own linen if you prefer but it does save on weight and is available on arrival. 

You will see that there is an option to also purchase additional items. It is not necessary as once your child is in Jerusalem they can go and buy extra towels, linen etc very reasonably priced.

We are excited to offer you our 'keep it simple' linen package at an amazing price. A duvet inner, pillow and complete linen set! Ordered online and delivered to ohrsom in Jerusalem!
https://buyb4bye.com/product/orhsom-gap-year-keep-it-simple/

Sim card- E Sims are the best option while traveling outside of Israel as they are very easy to sign up for and use in different countries and are cost effective.  
The Airolo app is most recommended. 
For Israel specifically we have secured 2 discounted package options. Please see costs and sign-up link below. Please note this is through the 019 Network and is a service to you- it is not run through Ohrsom.. You can also use an esim or purchase a sim card on arrival in Israel.
Plan 1 - $8/month
40 gb
Unlimited calls and SMS in Israel
100 minutes of calls to USA and Canada

Plan 2 - $16/month
200 gb
Unlimited calls and SMS in Israel
Unlimited calls to the USA and Canada

sign up link: enter link 

Leave: add leave policy

Year plan outline

Forms long form with dietary requirements, rooming lists etc
Medical health questionnaire 
Signed contract 





Whatsapp groups - Please join the parent whatsapp group for your country below. (please only join the whatsapp group if your child is confirmed and your deposit has been paid) 
SA add link
OZ whatsap chat add link

Rooming- We understand that this is a delicate issue and at the same time if your child comes on the programme with the right mindset with regards to this point it will enhance their whole experience. In life we all want to feel safe, held and appreciated. For some that feels like spending all your time with your closest friends for others it feels like being embraced and included into new friendship groups. Our holistic goal is to ensure that we allow space for both. If your child is coming on the programme with a close friend/s we want them to be able to share that experience together. On the other hand we also want group cohesiveness and a brotherhood/sisterhood of care and kindness.
So having said that please note our rooming guidelines below:
Rooms whilst traveling: 
-We will be sending out a form for your child to put down the names of friends who they would like to share with. We will ensure that they will be placed with at least one of them, possibly more. (Please see below re Israel rooming)
-In America and India they will have the opportunity to change rooms and share with different people for short periods of time. It's a great way to create new friendships and see who they want to live with. Sometimes, as much as they are a friend group, it can be challenging to live together, but we will ensure that they are always with at least one of their requested friends.
- During this time, we encourage switching rooms at each destination. As the stops are short term it's a wonderful opportunity to mingle in different groups. We encourage the students to approach our staff to suggest who they would like to share with at different stops.
Rooms for Israel 
-A week before leaving for Israel, we will ask them once again to fill out a form requesting their roommates and flatmates. By this stage they will have a good idea of who they work well with in a room. We will do our utmost to ensure that they are placed with all the friends that they request.  Our staff will also have a good idea of personalities and group dynamics by then and be able to guide the process to ensure that the room allocations work. Please keep in mind, that just because a student wants to be with certain friends, it may not always be reciprocal. So we ask for your partnership in this regard to give them the skills and the perspective to understand that their room is not the be all and end all of the programme and that overcoming slight challenges in this regard is a growth opportunity.


-Most apartments accomodate 6 people, there are 1/2 apartments that accomodates 8-10 people and we will do our best to accommodate everyone's requests.
-Once they are in their apartments, it is very challenging to move anyone around, as moving one person in an apartment, usually means having to move someone else out and this is not simple and has a Domino effect.
-Often through the year, friends clash and relationships change ,and this is normal, it doesn't mean they can't work it out and stay in the same apartment and PG we will provide them with the tools to manage these things.
-If a student feels that it is unmanageable to stay in their apartment, it needs to be discussed and we will do our best to help. This will take time and will not happen over night and everyone would need to be patient. Also please bare in mind the many factors that come with such a move.

Apartments:
-One of the (many) X- Factors of the Ohrsom programme is the apartments. They are all beautiful and located in central Jerusalem and offer the students the opportunity of 'independence' while at the same time being taken care of within a structure. 
- The apartments are in different locations and all have slightly different features. To be assigned into any of the apartments in that location is to have won the jackpot, so we ask the students not to live in comparison but rather to focus on the positives in whichever apartment they are placed in.
-All the apartments are close together (within only a few minute walking distance) and walking in Israel is safe and therefore they easily can hang out in each other's apartments. We need to prepare the students that when they first arrive in Israel everything is new and foreign to what they know, and can be overwhelming. It takes time to settle. We need to be supportive and hold them through it- it's a process and the process works.
- There are many things that set Ohrsom apart, but a main one is the apartments. We go to great lengths to secure beautiful apartments in Jerusalem that are located in prime locations in the city centre. It is imperative that your child understands that it is a tremendous privilege and that their apartments need to be taken care of. The students need to ensure that the apartments are kept clean and that the furniture and appliances are looked after with pride and respect. There is a $300 refundable deposit for breakages which will only be refunded if the apartment is left in good condition at the end of the year. 
Pre Gap year workshop- details


Deposit deadline: Reminder that the deadline to pay the $500 deposit to secure your child's space on the Gap year is ??? After which there will be a $500 late joining fee. 


India: In India we plan to visit Dehli, Agra, Jaipur and Dharamsala. So your doctor can advise you on any specific vaccinations/ medication for these areas. 
Again there are no mandatory vaccines that are necessary and they are low risk Malaria areas but please consult your doctor and if you choose to follow any treatments please do them before leaving for the Gap year.


Sim Cards
E Sims are the best option while traveling outside of Israel as they are very easy to sign up for and use in different countries and are cost effective.  
The Airolo app is most recommended. 
For Israel we have secured 2 discounted package options through the 019 network:
Plan 1 - $8/month
40 gb
Unlimited calls and SMS in Israel
100 minutes of calls to USA and Canada


Plan 2 - $16/month
200 gb
Unlimited calls and SMS in Israel
Unlimited calls to the USA and Canada


Alternatively your child can get a sim card on arrival in Jerusalem close to their apartment.


By early January you will receive:
-A packing list
-Forms to fill out and upload your documents eg passport, Unabridged birth certificate, flight information etc.
-A form to order linen
-A sign up link for the sim card package


This is the last email that will go to all parents whose children have signed up. Future emails will be targeted only at those who have paid deposits and committed to the programme. If you would still like your child to join/ discuss your child joining thereafter please feel free to reach out.


Please note that our offices will be closed from today until 6 January. For any urgent matters please email me and I'll do my best to reply timeously.


Urgent things to take care of for now:
1. Airticket: Please book an air ticket to arrive in New York on 12 February (JFK or Newark airport are acceptable, we will collect all students. A form will be sent out in the coming days requesting your flight information)
2. USA Visa: Apply for a visa for USA (South African passports require a visa from the American embassy, Australian and EU passports require an ESTA visa). Please see further visa information attached. 
3. Return Flight out of USA :Please ensure that you have received a return ticket from our offices (please note that this flight is for visa and entry into USA purposes only- the flight details do not reflect the actual travel plan.) NB EVERY STUDENT needs this flight in order to gain entry into USA - you can't enter on a way one ticket. To get your return ticket please email Louandri on dutoitlouandri@gmail.com
4. Israel Visa-  Ohrsom will be arranging the long term student visa for the duration of the programme in Israel, you just need to arrange the new Israel entry visa which allows entry into the country.  https://israel-entry.piba.gov.il/visa-option/. If your child has an Israeli passport- please ensure that they have received army clearance. 
5. Medical Insurance- Please ensure that you have signed up for medical insurance using the link below. This is mandatory in order to partake in the programme. https://www.ctas.co.il/ohrsom.asp. Please use the address 11 Hillel St, Jerusalem and your child's mobile number. Date of entry in Israel 4 April- 12 November. Please note that the medical cover will begin in USA on 12 February. This cover is medical only and does not cover travel insurance for personal items etc.

When booking a return flight home for the end of the year in November, please note that we do offer an extension programme for your child to stay on in Israel (further details re this programme will be provided later in the year). So it is advisable to book a flexible ticket which allows the option to change the return date. 

India: In India we plan to visit Dehli, Agra, Jaipur, Ranthambore and Dharamsala. There are no mandatory vaccines that are necessary and they are low risk Malaria areas but please consult your doctor and if you choose to follow any treatments please do them before leaving for the Gap year. 

Packing list: Please see the attachment below. 
Reminder: Luggage allowance- Although the programme is over 9 months and there will be different weather seasons etc we recommend that you only bring one suitcase. We have seen that the students who pack lighter, benefit greatly throughout the year. 
Please Note: From America we will be traveling directly to India. Ohrsom will cover the expense of 1x 23kg suitcase, plus 8kg hand luggage and a backpack bag per student for the flight to India and the return flight to Israel. If you have a second check in suitcase it will be at an additional cost to you (based on the airline cost TBC). There may also be storage costs in India.



